# Common Issues
You can find a list of common issues and solutions regarding the PEV and EVCC.<br>
Issues that are tagged `#evcc` or `secc` are specific to a given side; if unspecified, it applies to both controllers.
The solutions suggested for each given issue will usually contain some links to specific sections of this documentation, or occasionnally external resources, to help pinpointing the piece of information that you need.

# I do not manage to connect to my controller
The recommended way to physically connect to your controller is to use the ethernet port and connect through SSH protocol.
The default factory settings for the IP address of the controller are `192.168.1.49` for a EVCC and `192.168.1.51` for an EVSE; the default login is `root` and the default password `dev-only`. As a friendly remainder, these credentials should *absolutely* be changed if your controller is ever used outside a local and offline network.<br>

# My changes are always erased when I reboot the controller
By default the controller are shipped with a read-only file system. You need to explicitly to set the system in writable mode to be able to do permanent changes. This is explained in [this section](.).

*\#evcc`
# It seems that my SECC and power modules are not able to communicate properly
## First, check your CAN interface
Power modules do not have a universal way of communicating over CAN. CAN communications can be defined by specifications file (which themselves can be written following different standards, such as Open Can definition format (`.kcd`) or CAN database `dbc`). These specifications files define how each CAN frame is splitted into different signals, the binary headers to identify these signals, etc. You **need** to have matching CAN interfaces between your EVCC and your power modules to get the backend communications to work.
If you are using ADVANTICS power modules, we can use the ADVANTICS CAN interface out-of-the-box. It should simply be properly configured in your config files (`/srv/config.cfg` on your controller's filesystem*) by setting the following entry:
`charger_type = ADVANTICS_ADS_PC_UPUD`.
See configuration section.
## Second, check your pistol index (For EVSE > v4.x.x only)
Since version 4, a *positive* pistol index must be defined for each protocol (CCS AC, CCS DC, Chademo). This index must be unique to each protocol. That index is encoded in the first 2 bytes of the CAN frame IDs defined in the CAN interface. If you are using ADVANTICS power modules, the power modules should handle that by themselves. However, if you are using other power modules you should make sure that your power modules are appending the pistol index that you defined in your config file at the beginning of the frame IDs.
The pistol index can be defined in the config file (`/srv/config.cfg`*) by setting the following entry in the corresponding protocol section (`[pistol:CCS DC]`, `[pistol:CCS AC]`, `[pistol:Chademo]`), (*e.g. for CCS DC*):
```
[pistol:CCS DC]
...
index = 2
```
With the above example, all the CAN frame IDs should start with `0x02...`.

## Third, check your stack position (For ADVANTICS power modules only)
One of the feature of ADVANTICS power modules is you can wire multiple converters in parallel to increase your charging station output power. All the converters are assigned a stack index to differenciate them when used in that setup. If you are only using one converter, this stack index is 0 by default which should not affect your CAN interface by any means. If you are using multiple converters; you should assign them a stack index by following this [procedure](.). You should also set the range of stack index in the config file (`/srv/config.cfg`*):
```
stack_pos = 0,1,2
```
In this example, 3 converters are used in parallel, with respective stack positions 0, 1 and 2.

## I managed to get to the charging stage but I get an emergency stop shortly after
Your are probably facing an extremly common problem, which is unsufficient protection of your PLC line from the electromagnetic noise generated by the power link.
When your starts charging, the high power of the power link generates significant electromagnetic noise that can disrupt your PLC communications if the CP line is not protected well enough. Since the charging process is regulated over the PLC communications, any disruption of the High-Level communications will lead ot an emergency stop and abort the charging process.
There are a couple things you should check in your hardware setup if this happening:
## Avoid ground loops in your wiring

## ferrite (...)
(...)

## Check the distance between the CP line and the powerline in your wiring
(...)






\*: Please make sure that your system is in writable mode before doing your modifications