# **Applications**

The ADB-PC-DC01 module is suited for high power electric-vehicle DC charging, covering CCS1, CCS2, NACS, CHAdeMO and MCS. It integrates cleanly with energy-storage systems and supports full V2G operation thanks to it bidirectional topology that is designed to meet stringent reinforced insulation requirements. It can be used in any application that requires a large voltage regulation along with isolated bidirectionality, such as V2G systems. These applications require a wide voltage range to allow all kinds of vehicle types to be connected. 

Additionally, it functions effectively in EV chargers and charger simulators, DC voltage isolation and conversion aboard ships, mining equipment, or as a laboratory-grade isolated bidirectional power source. The design maintains reliability in harsh locations, including marine, coastal, and mining environments. The module is suitable for a wide range of applications, including:

### Electric Vehicle Charging
- DC Fast Charge stations supporting MCS, R-MCS (up to 6MW), CCS, NACS and CHAdeMO standards
- Battery-assisted charging systems
- Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G) systems
- Onboard charging for off-highway and heavy-duty machinery

### Energy Storage Systems
- Grid-tied and off-grid energy storage systems
- AC and DC microgrids
- Industrial energy management

### Industrial Applications
- Laboratory bidirectional power supplies
- High-power DC bus management
- Industrial power systems requiring galvanic isolation
- Onboard charging for off-highway and heavy-duty machinery

### Harsh Environments
- Marine and coastal applications.
- Mining operations.
- Extreme temperature environments (-40°C to +70°C).
